until recently drivers had to make
choices between the handling and
performance of a sporty sedan the
convenience of a minivan or the
ruggedness and load capacity of a large
SUV Michelin was always there perfecting
our formulas refining our designs now it
seems drivers have come to expect the
best of all worlds and car makers have
responded by building SUVs with
performance and luxury in mind and by
creating an entirely new type of vehicle
the crossover crossovers and luxury SUVs
combine the comfort performance security
and handling of sedans with the
ruggedness and roominess of SUVs they
feature bigger engines stronger
suspensions and four-wheel drive giving
them performance characteristics far
beyond those of typical passenger cars
or minivans to harness this performance
other tire manufacturers have offered
new fitments of their existing touring
or light truck tires but initially we
saw the need for an entirely new type of
tire specifically designed for
crossovers and luxury SUVs the michelin
latitude tore HP technology that blends
performance and security helps the
latitude tour HP reach a level of
versatility never before possible
most passenger tires feature sipes
thin grooves across the tread that help
evacuate water for better performance in
snow and rain the typical trade-off is
that the tread blocks become less stable
and handling is compromised the michelin
latitude tourer HP tire features newly
developed secure lock tread block
technology which delivers the best of
all worlds snow and wet traction without
giving up handling secure lock tread
blocks allow the sipes to remain fully
open under normal driving conditions for
excellent wet and snow traction but they
lock together under stress creating a
stable tread block for better security
and performance when accelerating
braking or cornering the latitude tour
HP tire also features Michelin fasts or
filament at zero technology using the
same material that makes bulletproof
vest bulletproof fast technology allows
Michelin to place targeted
reinforcements right where they're
needed most
helping the tire hold its shape at high
speeds and helping to improve where ride
quality and steering response tire
performance can vary greatly depending
on the rubber compound used in the tread
the latitude tour HP tire uses michelin
c3m technology to place two different
tread compounds in different areas of
the tire the outer and inner
intermediate shoulder areas of the tire
feature a tread compound formulated for
dry grip the center of the tire features
a rubber compound optimized for traction
on wet road surfaces though many
crossovers and luxury SUVs will never
venture off-road their drivers usually
expect some degree of ruggedness
michelin latitude tour HP tires are
built with two internal plies instead of
one this double reinforcement helps
resist sidewall damage
giving drivers the confidence they need
to handle just about any type of road
surface and helping to protect the tire
against curbs potholes and other
unexpected hazards
when combining performance with the
capacity to carry heavy loads tire
safety is critical
advanced computer simulations and
real-world testing helped Michelin
engineers develop the load sensitive
contact patch this new technology helps
ensure that the area where the tire
makes contact with the road is always
optimized so in traveling light or heavy
drivers can always count on consistent
performance from their tires together
these technologies help to overcome
compromise stretching performance well
beyond the competition especially in the
area of rolling resistance where less
friction with the road can significantly
improve fuel economy the michelin
latitude tore HP tire helps provide the
right solution for drivers of crossovers
and luxury SUVs it's also the formula
for success at your dealership currently
the light truck tire segment represents
over one-third of the total replacement
tire market and although full size SUV
sales are projected to remain flat or
decline in the near future sales of
crossover vehicles are expected to grow
faster than any other new vehicle
segment
the michelin latitude tour HP tire is
positioned to take advantage of these
trends with all the benefits of a
performance sport light truck tire and
the all season capability of a base
level touring tire it fills a
significant gap in the tire industry and
complements Michelin's full line of
light truck and SUV tires only original
equipment sizes will be maintained in
the pilot LT x 4x4 x pc and 4x4 synchro
entire lines the latitude tour HP
replaces these lines with a full
complement of sizes for the all-season h
v and w touring light truck market best
of all we already have the fitments for
today's most popular crossovers and
luxury SUVs with more to come
virtually every major equipment
manufacturer is testing the latitude
tour HP for their vehicles the michelin
latitude to our HP combining all we know
about performance versatility security
and the sheer enjoyment of driving it's
a better way forward for crossovers and
luxury SUVs initially a better way
forward